%{
  title: "Banchan.Art Beta Launch üéâ",
  author: "Banchan.Art Technical Committee",
  tags: ~w(beta release tech),
  description: "We're celebrating our initial Beta launch! Join us!",
  published: false
}
---

Today, we're pleased to announce the Beta for Banchan.Art, a co-operative
commissions platform that's creating a new space for artists to sell their art
with minimal risk, and without being exploited by the platform they rely on.
You can read more about who we are and what we want to do in our [About
Us](/about-us) page.

With this release, we're looking to start testing and proving out our platform
with real commissions for the first time since we started working on it over a
year and a half ago.

### Who can Join? ü§î

Anyone can create an account on Banchan.Art as of today, but if you want to be
an artist and sell commissions, you'll need to [sign up for the beta](/beta),
which will put you on a first-come-first-serve waiting list. We'll be making
our way through this list and sending artist invites over the course of the
next few days (and weeks).

If you're particularly ready to get started, you can also probably poke us on
[our Discord](https://discord.gg/FUkTHjGKJF) and jump the line a bit--the main
reason we're limiting invites is to make sure we can handle the load and don't
have any horrible bugs we missed.

We'll be staying in beta as long as it takes to feel confident that our
platform is stable and working how we want it to.

### How much does it cost? üí∏

We're launching with a **10% flat fee** on any transactions. This is the
lowest we could manage to get our fees while still providing you with the full
experience Banchan is meant to be, including:

* Secure payment processing using 135+ currencies.
* 80+ countries that artists can reside in.
* An escrow system for trustworthy deposits.
* A platform for advertising your commissions and managing client communication.
* Dispute and chargeback protection (we'll take care of this for you! See our
  [Disputes policy](https://dev.banchan.art/disputes-policy)).
* Automatic, international VAT and Sales Tax collection (we take care of
  filing/remitting them for you).
* 1099 forms for US artists, when tax time comes along.

All our income will be directed towards paying Stripe/tax fees (roughly 60-70%
of the collected fee), hosting, and other business expenses to keep the lights
on. Until Banchan grows enough, we won't have any paid staff, so we'll be
running very light. Every commission helps!

We may change these fees in the future depending on our needs and, once [we've
established our Membership system](/membership), Artist Members themselves
will be able to vote on a fee structure that they believe balances their own
income with the need to build out and maintain a quality platform.

If you're curious to know more details about where the money goes, please drop
by the Discord, and we're more than happy to discuss it! There's
_spreadsheets_ üôà.

### How do I sell art? üñºÔ∏è

Art in Banchan is sold through something we call **Studios**: You can make as
many of these as you want once you're accepted as an artist, and can have them
each following different themes.

You can access your studios--and create new ones--by opening up your context
dropdown on the top of your side navigation:

![studio dropdown for artists](/images/blog/2023/08-18-artist-dropdown.png)

Once you've created a studio, you can visit its Shop page and create a new
**Offering**.

#### Setting up your Offerings

Offerings describe what kinds of commissions you'll take. For example, an
Offering could be **"Illustration"**, or **"Chibi"**. Offerings are fairly
flexible in how they can be set up: they can have a limited number of slots, a
maximum number of (not-yet-accepted) proposals, optional add-ons that a client
can select while requesting the commission, and a gallery of example images.

Once you've configured them and added a card image, your offerings will start
showing up on the site, like so:

![example offerings list](/images/blog/2023/08-18-offerings.png)

#### Commission Proposals

Once your offerings are set up: you wait! You can link people to your studio,
or to individual offerings, and announce that you have open slots on your
preferred social media. Your clients will then be able to request a
commission, with a description of what they want, and you'll be notified once
they submit. You can see a list of your Studio's commissions in its
**Commissions** page (this is different from your **My Commissions** page,
which is only for commissions you're a client of).

The new commission will look something like this:

![fresh commission](/images/blog/2023/08-18-new-commission.png)

At this point, you haven't committed to the commission yet: it's simply a
proposal/request from a potential client. You can have a conversation with
your client to clarify any details, and then determine whether to accept the
proposal or not by using the **Commission Status** dropdown:

![status dropdown](/images/blog/2023/08-18-status-dropdown.png)

If you're limiting the number of slots in an Offering, they're not "consumed"
until you've **"Accepted"** the commission. You can also choose to reject the
commission proposal altogether.

#### Managing Commissions

From here on out, the commission becomes a conversation between you and your
client. You can ask for more details or clarifications, you can post drafts or
request more references, change the line items for the commission, and
otherwise have your professional discussion there. Any major changes are
permanently logged in the commission timeline, so you'll be able to keep track
of anything that's changed over time.

As far as money goes, there's two ways to invoice your client: You can **request
a deposit**, or you can **submit a final invoice**.

When you request a deposit, the money the client pays doesn't go directly to
you: Banchan holds onto it until either the commission ends, or the client
decides to do an "early release". By doing a deposit, you can be sure that a
client has paid some amount towards a commission and that the payment has gone
through, but the client knows their money isn't finally disbursed yet. This
"escrow" system is core to building trust in Banchan: clients know an artist
can't run away with their money, and artists know that clients can run away
with their art. Attachments to invoices won't be available to clients until
payment is complete.

![Example released payment](/images/blog/2023/08-18-released-payment.png)

When you have a final draft ready, you can submit a **Final Invoice**, which
will be for whatever the remaining amount is on the commission, after counting
deposits. As soon as the client pays the final invoice, all deposits and the
final payment will be released to your studio, and become available for payout
on your studio's **Payouts** page.

Please note: Brand new studios will have a longer payout wait time before
their **first** payout, typically around 7 days. Subsequent payouts will
become available much sooner. In the future, Banchan will also support instant
payouts for an additional fee.

### Where do I go from here? üîú

Explore the site! We hope Banchan.Art becomes your go-to platform for managing
commissions, and, if you're a client, that you find the right artist for the
art you've always dreamed of through us.

Join [our Discord](https://discord.gg/FUkTHjGKJF) and tell
us what you think (or use our [Feedback form](/feedback)). If you're on
GitHub, you can also file issues or just check out [our GitHub
repo](https://github.com/BanchanArt/banchan). Banchan is more than just a
platform: We're a community, and your participation will help us be better at
what we do.

